Pedro / Dimitar

Thanks for your time yesterday.

As discussed, see below a simple step-by-step guide to the process I adopted to produce the benchmark data.

1.	Finance to identify which folios across LOR, Expanded and CHT were/are used to deliver the scheme being benchmarked. They also supplied me with the EFC which was in CIM so I could cross check and verify the same in COINS. This was to ensure / capture any residual cost to complete provisions within the exercise.

2.	Basic information for each scheme regarding date of completion and GIFA m2 are required

3.	Run a COINS Cost head report for the client facing folio (LOR) (CONTRACT > Single Contract Enquiry > Cost Head) and export the report to excel

4.	Paste the Cost head codes (AA01 to ZZ99) and use the VLOOKUP to allocate the costs to the required “buckets” within the excel spreadsheet. Based upon the exercise I have done I have also come up with a slightly amended VLOOKUP which may make the process easier and thus reduces the items which need to be re-allocated, for example excavators can be allocated straight to “External Works” rather than prelims.

5.	Run a Subcontractor short summary report (Subcontract Ledger > Reports > Subcontractor Reports > Summary (Short)) on the client facing folio and export this into a excel spreadsheet. Then run a further subcontract report (Subcontract Ledger > Subcontracts) on the same folio. Take the information in column G “Description of the Works” and insert this into the Subcontractor short summary report. This now tells us which subcontractor did what element of work and the sum associated.

6.	Add 10 columns to the right of the information within the Short Summary report with the following prime cost headings;
a.	Substructure
b.	Super structure
c.	Internal Finishes
d.	FF&E
e.	MEP Services
f.	Specialist Installations
g.	External Works / Services
h.	Other Works
i.	Prelim Subs
j.	Consultant / Surveys

7.	Allocate the subcontractor cost within the Short Summary to the various headings based upon the descriptions provided. I have appended a copy which also includes generic descriptions for the type of items I am including in each category (see line 136). Some elements of cost may need to be split, such as Expanded across various headings ie Substructure, Superstructure and External Works

8.	A check is required on any payments made to CHT or Expanded as these need to be adjusted to be based upon their actual cost on their respective folio + 10% only (as an embedded baseline margin position). As the majority of the Projects I benchmarked were SGM schemes the payments would be based upon this calculation rather than the actual cost incurred.

9.	Produce the score card / Project Summary from the information produced so far. Knowing what the total cost is for LOR + CHT + EXP we can determine what 10% SGM would be. From this 10% SGM £sum deduct the embedded margin within CHT and EXP. The remaining sum is then the OH&P which need to be shown on the Score Card / Project Summary. I have included DGRI as an example.

10.	We then need to analyse the value attributable to other Specialist Trading Business Groups outside of CHT and Expanded. The only way I could determine this was by reviewing transactional COINS reports for LOR, CHT and EXP and then reviewing the transactions / account codes / cost head descriptions for which items pertaining to. I suggest there must be a way to link the explore, select et al folios so pull in the relevant value and its subsequently cost.

11.	All costs are then index linked to PUBSEC based upon the date of Completion and brought up to current day pricing. The costs are then combined to produce a weighted and simple average model which we can then use to analyse a scheme.

12.	From the data collected we can generate MAX and MIN for each element to give us an understand of the variance per m2 which could be expected.

13.	The prelims data can be analysed using the “bucket” allocation to determine performance against the average and to optimise our prelim delivery model moving forward.
